.TH HM 1 "2026-06-30" "hive-memory" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hm \- durable plain-text memory for AI agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hm
.RI [ global-options ]
.I command
.RI [ args ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hm
is the Hive Memory command-line interface. It manages durable, shareable,
plain-text memory for AI agents across sessions, agents, machines, and
projects.
.PP
The canonical store is ordinary files on disk: Markdown notes with TOML front
matter, JSON event sidecars, curated Markdown, and rebuildable indexes. Hive
Memory uses store and project identities so synced folders can move across
machines without losing scope.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --config " path"
Use a specific config file instead of the default XDG config path.
.TP
.BI --store " name"
Select a configured store.
.TP
.BI --as-agent " id"
Attribute writes and hook events to a specific agent identity.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show help.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
Print version information.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B stores
Initialize, list, show, diagnose, and migrate memory stores.
.TP
.B remember
Write a durable fact, preference, project context note, or reminder.
.TP
.B note
Write a lower-confidence raw note for later triage.
.TP
.B search
Search curated and remembered memory, with optional inbox inclusion and
explanations. Search spans project identities by default; a project hint boosts
related results, while
.B --project-only
narrows to that project.
.TP
.B context
Assemble agent-readable context within a token budget.
.TP
.B sync-status
Report store and index freshness without mutating state.
.TP
.B retag
Correct a record's persisted kind, scope, or project identity.
.TP
.B classify
Run the LLM kind-classification pass for pending or selected records.
.TP
.B capture
Extract durable fact candidates from a conversation and stage or promote them.
.TP
.B reconcile
Reconcile a candidate fact into memory using add, update, delete, or noop
decisions.
.TP
.B refresh
Rebuild indexes and derived state.
.TP
.B flush
Publish queued offline writes where the selected store supports it.
.TP
.B outbox
Flush queued offline writes to reachable stores.
.TP
.B projects
Resolve, bind, unbind, alias, list, and show project identities.
.TP
.B hook
Handle agent lifecycle events such as session start, prompt submit, tool
complete, and stop.
.TP
.B doctor
Run top-level diagnostics. Use
.B --quick
for hook-friendly checks.
.TP
.B promote
Promote a raw inbox note into curated memory.
.TP
.B inbox
Inspect raw inbox notes.
.TP
.B eval
Run retrieval corpus metrics and capture retrieval misses or bad hits as eval
fixtures.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The default config path is
.IR ~/.config/hive-memory/config.toml .
A minimal config selects a default store and maps store names to roots:
.PP
.RS
.nf
default_store = "personal"

[stores.personal]
root = "${HOME}/hive-memory/personal"
description = "Personal memory"
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/hive-memory/config.toml
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I <store>/manifest.toml
Store identity and metadata.
.TP
.I <store>/memories/
Remembered and curated memory content.
.TP
.I <store>/inbox/
Raw notes and staged capture candidates.
.SH SECURITY
Hive Memory refuses common secret-looking content on the write path and labels
context blocks by source, scope, store, and trust. Context output is data for an
agent to consider; it is not a higher-priority instruction channel.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The command completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Operational or user error.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid CLI usage.
.TP
.B 3
Configuration or schema validation failure.
.TP
.B 4
Privacy or safety refusal.
.TP
.B 5
Backend unavailable and no outbox fallback was available.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hm " " help ,
.BR hm " " "<command> --help"
